---
layout: post
title:  "More Puzzle Development"
date:   2021-04-14 20:00:00 -0500
---
<p>Welcome to the second to last week of Project Wyvern. You can download the zip file <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1PRMk9uwcoNwPtlWEC3YU9rmW_ZjfHRnX/view?usp=sharing">here</a>. This week was focused on developing more levels for the final deliverable and bug fixes. Most of the bugs were minor things that were simple to fix, like how the panel colliders were not going inactive when the panels fade. A larger bug I discovered was that when a telekinesis power was active for a specific object and you looked at another it immediately switched to controlling the new object! I also improved my object reset to they take a few seconds before they go back to their starting position.</p>

<h4>Puzzle 4: The Maze</h4>
<p>While this puzzle is a very simple version of what could be implemented to work with Project Wyvern, it still helps represent the diversity of my research this semester. I created a simple maze that requires the player to lift a small ball (using telekinesis) and navigate the ball to the end. They can't complete the maze without opening 3 gates that are blocking their progress. It currently lacks a lot in juice but sounds and effects will be easy enough to add over the next week.</p>

<video width="600" height="auto" controls>
    <source src="{{site.url}}/assets/4_14/maze.mkv" alt="Example of a maze the player completes using telekinesis" type="video/mkv"/>
</video>

<h4>Puzzle 5: Pirate Battle</h4>
<p>While the pirate battle with Kris is still not finished, it still is fun and cool to show off. The player starts on the deck of their ship to find they have no sails. Using their telekinesis powers the player can lift canon balls to be placed on rails which will feed them into canons. Once the balls reach the canon they fire! Circling the player is the evil bean Captain Kris on their own boat. The current implementation does not have Kris firing their canons but the final version will. The player needs to hit Kris 3 times with their canons to finish the level. I felt like this was a fun example of how stationary gameplay could still be interesting and give the player control. I'm planning on adding some side rails where the player can use their push power to try to hit Kris even when their boat is out of range.</p>

<video width="600" height="auto" controls>
    <source src="{{site.url}}/assets/4_14/pirate.mp4" alt="Pirate ship battle between you and a circling boat" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

<h4>Last Week!</h4>
<p>This is my last week of development! I really want to add 1 more puzzle and juice up the games before the showcase. Getting ready for some late nights.</p>

<p>-Andrew</p>